Syllabus2024Fall.md, before:

# Syllabus for COMP 373/473 Fall 2024

## Course Information

- [Sakai site](https://sakai.luc.edu/portal/site/COMP_373_001_6519_1246)
- Course number: COMP 373/473
- Course title: Advanced Object-Oriented Programming
- Sections: 373-001/473-001 Fall 2024
- Meeting times: Thursdays 16:15-18:45
- Location: Mundelein Center 415, Lake Shore Campus
- Course description: *Object-orientation continues to be a dominant approach to software development. This advanced programming-intensive course studies object-oriented analysis, design, and implementation from a design patterns perspective.*
- Prerequisites: COMP 313 (undergraduate) or COMP 400C (graduate)

## Instructor Information

- Instructor: Konstantin Läufer | GitHub | Google Scholar | Rate My Prof
- Communication: *All communication regarding this class takes place in the classroom (verbal) and MS Teams (written). Most will be in the team-level channel specific to this term. For individual or group-level concerns, you may use direct individual or group messages in MS Teams; my user ID is **klaufer@luc.edu**. (To help me prioritize your class-related communication, please DO NOT use email!)*
- Office hours
  - Tue 18:45-19:15 in Cuneo 002 (after class, no appointment required)
  - Thu 18:45-19:15 in Mundelein 415 (after class, no appointment required)
  - Wed and Fri 14:00-15:30 in Doyle Hall 203 or online (by appointment via [Calendly](https://calendly.com/laufer))

## Learning

- *Outcomes:* Proficiency in the use of object-oriented languages, frameworks, and patterns; advanced understanding of key language mechanisms such as delegation, inheritance, polymorphism, and reflection; familiarity with object-oriented modeling and development tools and test-driven development  
- *Learning activities*: Lecture, readings and discussion, research presentation, small group projects
- *Tentative timeline:*
  - overview and motivation (1 week)
  - business and software engineering contexts (1 week)
  - design patterns: creational, structural, behavioral (3 weeks)
  - design principles (2 weeks)
  - dependency management (2 weeks)
  - advanced topics (4 weeks)
  - project presentations (2 weeks)

## Information about Academic Integrity

Please refer to the academic standards and regulations applicable to your program:

- [Undergraduate](https://catalog.luc.edu/academic-standards-regulations/undergraduate/)
- [Graduate](https://catalog.luc.edu/academic-standards-regulations/graduate-professional/)

## Required Materials

- Course text: [Domain-Driven Design Reference](https://www.domainlanguage.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/DDD_Reference_2015-03.pdf)
- Additional texts available free on O'Reilly Safari:
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-in/9780136885979
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/fundamentals-of-software/9781492043447 / https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/fundamentals-of-software/9781098175504/
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-patterns/9781098134280/
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-for/9780128093382/
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/cloud-application-architecture/9781098116897/

## Evaluation and Grading (tentative)

### Grading Components (all students)

- Class participation (5 points)
  - In class
  - On MS Teams
- Research paper review (25 points)
  - 5 papers, 5 points each
- Main team project (55 points)
  - Team formed by deadline: 5 points
  - One-page project proposal: 15 points
  - Project presentation: 15 points
  - Final report: 20 points
- Quizzes (15 points)

### Additional Grading Components (graduate students)

- Leading research paper review sessions (5 points)
  - Focus on deeper analyses of assigned readings, presenting alternative design patterns, or exploring related topics not covered in detail during lectures.
  - Assessment: preparation, facilitation skills, and ability to engage peers.
- Acting as Team Leads on Group Projects (5 points)
  - Responsible for coordinating the team’s work, ensuring adherence to design principles, and managing version control and task assignments.
  - Assessment: based on leadership, organization, communication, and team feedback.
- Analysis of Architectural Evolution or Research Progress during Project (10 points)
  - Report (2-3 pages) detailing design decisions and trade-offs made during the project; evaluate of architectural and design pattern usage, considering scalability, maintainability, and potential extensions.
  - Assessment: based on technical soundness and readability.

### Grading scheme (undergraduates)

- A 92 points and up
- A- 88
- B+ 84
- B 80
- B- 75
- C+ 70
- C 65
- C- 60
- D+ 55
- D 50
- F < 50

### Grading scheme (graduate students)

- A 112 points and up
- A- 108
- B+ 104
- B 100
- B- 95
- C+ 90
- C 85
- C- 80
- D+ 75
- D 70
- F < 70

### Policy on late or missing work/exams

- We will make an effort to work around scheduled absences and emergencies. Please notify the instructor through MS Teams as soon as reasonably possible.

### Policy on missed classes and/or tardiness, including penalties

- See next section.

## Attendance

- This is a on-campus, face-to-face class involving lectures, group activities, etc.
- If you have a scheduled absence, I will make an effort to record all lectures for later viewing through Sakai/Panopto. In addition, some prerecorded videos are available through Panopto.
- To earn points for group activities or other in-class activities, you are required to participate during class time (in person or remotely) or make up for the work outside of class.
- The university's statement about the observation of religious holidays is available [here](https://www.luc.edu/academicaffairs/homenews/honoringstudentreligiousobservances.shtml).

## Recording of class meetings

In this class, software will be used to record live class discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. All recordings will become unavailable to students in the class when the course has concluded. The use of all video recordings will be in keeping with the University Privacy Statement shown below.

## Privacy Statement

Assuring privacy among faculty and students engaged in online and face-to-face instructional activities helps promote open and robust conversations and mitigates concerns that comments made within the context of the class will be shared beyond the classroom. As such, recordings of instructional activities occurring in online or face-to-face classes may be used solely for internal class purposes by the faculty member and students registered for the course, and only during the period in which the course is offered. Students will be informed of such recordings by a statement in the syllabus for the course in which they will be recorded. Instructors who wish to make subsequent use of recordings that include student activity may do so only with informed written consent of the students involved or if all student activity is removed from the recording. Recordings including student activity that have been initiated by the instructor may be retained by the instructor only for individual use.

## Information about Accessibility Support

Loyola University Chicago provides reasonable academic and student life accommodations for students with disabilities. Students interested in receiving academic accommodations related to a disability or other health condition are invited to register with the Student Accessibility Center (SAC) at https://luc.edu/sac/applywithsac. Students may register with the SAC at any point in their academic career, however the SAC encourages students to register as early as possible to reduce delay in delivery of accommodations. The SAC, student, and professor will engage in an interactive process to determine how each student’s accommodations are applied to individual class sections. 

Please note that in this class, software may be used to audio-record class lectures to provide equal access to students with disabilities. Students approved for this accommodation use recordings for their personal study only and recordings may not be shared with other people or used in any way against the faculty member, other lecturers, or students whose classroom comments are recorded as part of the class activity. Recordings are deleted at the end of the semester.  

For more information about registering with the SAC or questions or concerns regarding the implementation of approved accommodations, please contact the SAC at 773-508-3700 or SAC@luc.edu.  Students are also welcome to visit the SAC on the first floor of Sullivan Center, Suite 117, to share questions or concerns with one of our accessibility specialists. 

(Please see also [luc.edu/sac/faculty](https://luc.edu/sac/faculty/).)

## Information about Title IX

As an instructor, I am a Responsible Campus Partner (“RCP”) under Loyola’s Comprehensive Policy and Procedures for Addressing Discrimination, Sexual Misconduct, and Retaliation (available at [luc.edu/equity](https://luc.edu/equity)). While my goal is for you to be able to engage fully and authentically with our course material through class discussions and written work, I also want to be transparent that as a RCP I am required to report certain disclosures of sexual misconduct (including sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner and/or domestic violence, and/or stalking) to the Office for Equity & Compliance ("OEC"). As the University’s Title IX office, the OEC coordinates the University's response to reports and complaints of sexual misconduct (as well as discrimination of any kind) to ensure students' rights are protected.

As an instructor, I also have an obligation under Illinois law to report disclosures of or suspected instances of child abuse or neglect (https://luc.edu/hr/legal-notices/mandatedreportingofchildabuseandneglect).

The University maintains such reporting requirements to ensure that any student who experiences sexual/gender-based violence receives accurate information about available resources and support. Such reports **will not generate a report to law enforcement** (no student will ever be forced to file a report with the police). Additionally, the University’s resources and supports are available to all students even if a student chooses that they do not want any other action taken. If you have any questions about this policy, you are encouraged to contact the OEC at equity@luc.edu or 773-508-7766. 

If you ever wish to speak with a **confidential** resource regarding gender-based violence, I encourage you to call The Line at 773-494-3810. The Line is staffed by confidential advocates from 8:30am-5pm M-F and 24 hours on the weekend when school is in session. Advocates can provide support, talk through your options (medical, legal, LUC reporting, safety planning, etc.), and connect you with resources as needed -- without generating a report or record with the OEC. More information about The Line can be found at [luc.edu/wellness](https://luc.edu/wellness).

Commit message:

Added additional grad-level learning outcomes

Syllabus2024Fall.md, after:

# Syllabus for COMP 373/473 Fall 2024

## Course Information

- [Sakai site](https://sakai.luc.edu/portal/site/COMP_373_001_6519_1246)
- Course number: COMP 373/473
- Course title: Advanced Object-Oriented Programming
- Sections: 373-001/473-001 Fall 2024
- Meeting times: Thursdays 16:15-18:45
- Location: Mundelein Center 415, Lake Shore Campus
- Course description: *Object-orientation continues to be a dominant approach to software development. This advanced programming-intensive course studies object-oriented analysis, design, and implementation from a design patterns perspective.*
- Prerequisites: COMP 313 (undergraduate) or COMP 400C (graduate)

## Instructor Information

- Instructor: Konstantin Läufer | GitHub | Google Scholar | Rate My Prof
- Communication: *All communication regarding this class takes place in the classroom (verbal) and MS Teams (written). Most will be in the team-level channel specific to this term. For individual or group-level concerns, you may use direct individual or group messages in MS Teams; my user ID is **klaufer@luc.edu**. (To help me prioritize your class-related communication, please DO NOT use email!)*
- Office hours
  - Tue 18:45-19:15 in Cuneo 002 (after class, no appointment required)
  - Thu 18:45-19:15 in Mundelein 415 (after class, no appointment required)
  - Wed and Fri 14:00-15:30 in Doyle Hall 203 or online (by appointment via [Calendly](https://calendly.com/laufer))

## Learning

- *Outcomes (all students):* Proficiency in the use of object-oriented languages, frameworks, and patterns; advanced understanding of key language mechanisms such as delegation, inheritance, polymorphism, and reflection; familiarity with object-oriented modeling and development tools and test-driven development
- *Additional outcomes (graduate students):*
  - Advanced software architecture skills by critically analyzing, discussing, and applying design patterns and architectural principles in complex, real-world scenarios, based on a deeper understanding of design trade-offs.
  - Ability to lead software development teams through the full project lifecycle, effectively guiding the design process, managing collaborative efforts, and ensuring the architectural integrity of the final solution.
- *Learning activities*: Lecture, readings and discussion, research presentation, small group projects
- *Tentative timeline:*
  - overview and motivation (1 week)
  - business and software engineering contexts (1 week)
  - design patterns: creational, structural, behavioral (3 weeks)
  - design principles (2 weeks)
  - dependency management (2 weeks)
  - advanced topics (4 weeks)
  - project presentations (2 weeks)

## Information about Academic Integrity

Please refer to the academic standards and regulations applicable to your program:

- [Undergraduate](https://catalog.luc.edu/academic-standards-regulations/undergraduate/)
- [Graduate](https://catalog.luc.edu/academic-standards-regulations/graduate-professional/)

## Required Materials

- Course text: [Domain-Driven Design Reference](https://www.domainlanguage.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/DDD_Reference_2015-03.pdf)
- Additional texts available free on O'Reilly Safari:
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-in/9780136885979
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/fundamentals-of-software/9781492043447 / https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/fundamentals-of-software/9781098175504/
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-patterns/9781098134280/
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-for/9780128093382/
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/cloud-application-architecture/9781098116897/

## Evaluation and Grading (tentative)

### Grading Components (all students)

- Class participation (5 points)
  - In class
  - On MS Teams
- Research paper review (25 points)
  - 5 papers, 5 points each
- Main team project (55 points)
  - Team formed by deadline: 5 points
  - One-page project proposal: 15 points
  - Project presentation: 15 points
  - Final report: 20 points
- Quizzes (15 points)

### Additional Grading Components (graduate students)

- Leading research paper review sessions (5 points)
  - Focus on deeper analyses of assigned readings, presenting alternative design patterns, or exploring related topics not covered in detail during lectures.
  - Assessment: preparation, facilitation skills, and ability to engage peers.
- Acting as Team Leads on Group Projects (5 points)
  - Responsible for coordinating the team’s work, ensuring adherence to design principles, and managing version control and task assignments.
  - Assessment: based on leadership, organization, communication, and team feedback.
- Analysis of Architectural Evolution or Research Progress during Project (10 points)
  - Report (2-3 pages) detailing design decisions and trade-offs made during the project; evaluate of architectural and design pattern usage, considering scalability, maintainability, and potential extensions.
  - Assessment: based on technical soundness and readability.

### Grading scheme (undergraduates)

- A 92 points and up
- A- 88
- B+ 84
- B 80
- B- 75
- C+ 70
- C 65
- C- 60
- D+ 55
- D 50
- F < 50

### Grading scheme (graduate students)

- A 112 points and up
- A- 108
- B+ 104
- B 100
- B- 95
- C+ 90
- C 85
- C- 80
- D+ 75
- D 70
- F < 70

### Policy on late or missing work/exams

- We will make an effort to work around scheduled absences and emergencies. Please notify the instructor through MS Teams as soon as reasonably possible.

### Policy on missed classes and/or tardiness, including penalties

- See next section.

## Attendance

- This is a on-campus, face-to-face class involving lectures, group activities, etc.
- If you have a scheduled absence, I will make an effort to record all lectures for later viewing through Sakai/Panopto. In addition, some prerecorded videos are available through Panopto.
- To earn points for group activities or other in-class activities, you are required to participate during class time (in person or remotely) or make up for the work outside of class.
- The university's statement about the observation of religious holidays is available [here](https://www.luc.edu/academicaffairs/homenews/honoringstudentreligiousobservances.shtml).

## Recording of class meetings

In this class, software will be used to record live class discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. All recordings will become unavailable to students in the class when the course has concluded. The use of all video recordings will be in keeping with the University Privacy Statement shown below.

## Privacy Statement

Assuring privacy among faculty and students engaged in online and face-to-face instructional activities helps promote open and robust conversations and mitigates concerns that comments made within the context of the class will be shared beyond the classroom. As such, recordings of instructional activities occurring in online or face-to-face classes may be used solely for internal class purposes by the faculty member and students registered for the course, and only during the period in which the course is offered. Students will be informed of such recordings by a statement in the syllabus for the course in which they will be recorded. Instructors who wish to make subsequent use of recordings that include student activity may do so only with informed written consent of the students involved or if all student activity is removed from the recording. Recordings including student activity that have been initiated by the instructor may be retained by the instructor only for individual use.

## Information about Accessibility Support

Loyola University Chicago provides reasonable academic and student life accommodations for students with disabilities. Students interested in receiving academic accommodations related to a disability or other health condition are invited to register with the Student Accessibility Center (SAC) at https://luc.edu/sac/applywithsac. Students may register with the SAC at any point in their academic career, however the SAC encourages students to register as early as possible to reduce delay in delivery of accommodations. The SAC, student, and professor will engage in an interactive process to determine how each student’s accommodations are applied to individual class sections. 

Please note that in this class, software may be used to audio-record class lectures to provide equal access to students with disabilities. Students approved for this accommodation use recordings for their personal study only and recordings may not be shared with other people or used in any way against the faculty member, other lecturers, or students whose classroom comments are recorded as part of the class activity. Recordings are deleted at the end of the semester.  

For more information about registering with the SAC or questions or concerns regarding the implementation of approved accommodations, please contact the SAC at 773-508-3700 or SAC@luc.edu.  Students are also welcome to visit the SAC on the first floor of Sullivan Center, Suite 117, to share questions or concerns with one of our accessibility specialists. 

(Please see also [luc.edu/sac/faculty](https://luc.edu/sac/faculty/).)

## Information about Title IX

As an instructor, I am a Responsible Campus Partner (“RCP”) under Loyola’s Comprehensive Policy and Procedures for Addressing Discrimination, Sexual Misconduct, and Retaliation (available at [luc.edu/equity](https://luc.edu/equity)). While my goal is for you to be able to engage fully and authentically with our course material through class discussions and written work, I also want to be transparent that as a RCP I am required to report certain disclosures of sexual misconduct (including sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner and/or domestic violence, and/or stalking) to the Office for Equity & Compliance ("OEC"). As the University’s Title IX office, the OEC coordinates the University's response to reports and complaints of sexual misconduct (as well as discrimination of any kind) to ensure students' rights are protected.

As an instructor, I also have an obligation under Illinois law to report disclosures of or suspected instances of child abuse or neglect (https://luc.edu/hr/legal-notices/mandatedreportingofchildabuseandneglect).

The University maintains such reporting requirements to ensure that any student who experiences sexual/gender-based violence receives accurate information about available resources and support. Such reports **will not generate a report to law enforcement** (no student will ever be forced to file a report with the police). Additionally, the University’s resources and supports are available to all students even if a student chooses that they do not want any other action taken. If you have any questions about this policy, you are encouraged to contact the OEC at equity@luc.edu or 773-508-7766. 

If you ever wish to speak with a **confidential** resource regarding gender-based violence, I encourage you to call The Line at 773-494-3810. The Line is staffed by confidential advocates from 8:30am-5pm M-F and 24 hours on the weekend when school is in session. Advocates can provide support, talk through your options (medical, legal, LUC reporting, safety planning, etc.), and connect you with resources as needed -- without generating a report or record with the OEC. More information about The Line can be found at [luc.edu/wellness](https://luc.edu/wellness).
